# My Spotify App
This application was designed to help me discover new music similar to what I already listen to and was expaned to allow me to enter in seed values through an interface. This project as a whole mainly acts as an interface for track recommendations for the Spotify API which can be found with the following link: https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/reference/browse/get-recommendations/. The application requires the user to login to their Spotify account for it to function properly. The user authentication is carried out with a Node.js server. This is the only real use of the server. Everything else is carried out in the client with ReactJS and Spotify Web API. This application serves 2 main funcions: Creating a playlist based of a users top songs and entering songs/artists/genres to get similar tracks for.

### Recommendations based of top tracks
This functionality takes the signed in users top tracks from spotify and finds similar tracks to these songs that the user does not often listen to. The idea of this is to find tracks the user should like and that they have not heard before. It will create a new playlist called "Generated Playlist" in the users Spotify account with these tracks added to it. It will add 50 tracks. For this to work the user must have top tracks within Spotify. If the top tracks returned buy the Spotify user is null then no playlist will be generated.

### Recommendations based of search inputs
This functionality allows a user to enter in specific seed values for track recommendations instead of it being their top tracks. The idea behind this is to allow the user more customization options and to possibly expand what they normally listen to. Seed values can be tracks, artists, or genres in Spotify but only 5 combined seed values can be used for a search. I also created a more options buttons that adds more customization when getting recommendations. This includes aspects like the liveliness, tempo, and acousticness of the music. When selecting seed values the user must click on one of the recommendations that are below the search bar. This is because to use a seed value the ID is needed. The ID is found by submitting a query by name to Spotify but often multiple songs have the same name. By selecting the search recommendations that appear below the textbox I can be certain that the correct song is added to the seed values.

### Running the application
Node.js and ReactJS is needed to run the application. Node.js download can be found at: https://nodejs.org/en/download/. The download includes npm which will be used to install all React dependencies. In the "./client" directory use the line "npm install" to install all necessary dependencies. Once that is completed use the line "node App.js" in the directory "./auth-server/authorization_code" to create the Node.js authentication server used to log in to spotify. Then in a separate terminal in the directory "./client" use the line "npm start" to run the front end of the application.
